Copyright and Licence
=====================

Copyright (c) 2013-2017 Merchise Autrement [~º/~] and Contributors.

Copyright (c) 2012 Medardo Rodríguez.

This software is released under terms similar to the Python Software
Foundation (PSF) licence for Python 3.2 as stated `below
<merchise-license-psf>`:ref:.

Three modules inside this package are backports from Python 3.2.3's standard
library and the PSF retains the copyright.

.. |project| replace:: xotl.tools

.. |copyright| replace:: Copyright (c) 2015 Merchise and Contributors

.. _merchise-license-psf:

License Terms
-------------

This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between the Copyright Owner (Owner or
Author), and the Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and
otherwise using |project| |release| software in source or binary form
and its associated documentation.

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, the
Owner hereby grants Licensee a nonexclusive, royalty-free, world-wide
license to reproduce, analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly,
prepare derivative works, distribute, and otherwise use |project|
|release| alone or in any derivative version, provided, however, that
Owner's License Agreement and Owner's notice of copyright, i.e.,
"|copyright|" are retained in |project| |release| alone or in any
derivative version prepared by Licensee.

In the event Licensee prepares a derivative work that is based on or
incorporates |project| |release| or any part thereof, and wants to
make the derivative work available to others as provided herein, then
Licensee hereby agrees to include in any such work a brief summary of
the changes made to |project| |release|.

The Owner is making |project| |release| available to Licensee on an
"AS IS" basis. THE OWNER MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, THE OWNER
MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE
OF |project| |release| WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

THE OWNER SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF
|project| |release| FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR LOSS AS A RESULT OF MODIFYING, DISTRIBUTING, OR OTHERWISE
USING |project| |release|, OR ANY DERIVATIVE THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.

This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material
breach of its terms and conditions.

Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to create any
relationship of agency, partnership, or joint venture between The
Owner and Licensee. This License Agreement does not grant permission
to use The Owner trademarks or trade name in a trademark sense to
endorse or promote products or services of Licensee, or any third
party.

By copying, installing or otherwise using |project| |release|,
Licensee agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this
License Agreement.
